# Cybersecurity Threat Landscape (Part 3 - Verizon)

In this part, you should primarily use the Verizon Data Breaches Investigation Report plus independent research to answer the below questions.

    1. What is the difference between an incident and a breach?
Incident: A security event that compromises the integrity, confidentiality or availability of an information asset. 
Breach: An incident that results in the confirmed disclosure—not just potential exposure—of data to an unauthorized party. 

    2. What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by outside actors? What percentage were perpetrated by internal actors?
69% perpetrated by outsider actors - 34% involved Internal actors 

    3. What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by organized criminal groups?
39% of breaches 

    4. What percentage of breaches were financially motivated?
71% of breaches 

    5. Define the following:

Denial of Service: Any attack intended to compromise the availability of networks and systems. This includes both network and application attacks designed to overwhelm systems, resulting in performance degradation or interruption of servi 

Command and Control: The influence an attacker has over a compromised computer system they control. 

Backdoor: When hacker gain access to the system through unsecured points of entry, such as outdated plug-ins or input fields. 

Keylogger: A program that records (logging) the keys struck on a keyboard, typically covertly, so that a person using the keyboard is unaware that their actions are being monitored. Data can then be retrieved by the person operating the logging program. 




    6. The time from an attacker’s first action to the initial compromise of an asset is typically measured in which one? Seconds, minutes, hours, days?
Minutes typically. Conversely, the time to discovery is more likely to be months. Discovery time is very dependent on the type of attack in question. 

    7. When it comes to phishing, which industry has the highest click rates?
Education at 4.93%
